Consensus based reality gives individuals magic power that grows as they pool their abilities together or put their faith in particular individuals, eventually leading to the creations of beings considered gods and creations both marvelous and terrifying. There is a great period of instability and strife that eventually ends with the current Pantheon cementing control and using their combined power to place strict limits on themselves, other gods and magic in general. An era of relative peace and stability results and civilizations begin to grow and prosper under the new status quo, however as they mature new conflicts arise and old wounds and resentment have been festering.

Limits on the power of the Pantheon:
The Pantheon isn't intrinsicly good, but it is the basis of modern existence. The current Pantheon is built on a balance of power that is quite reliable but that doesn't remove the fact that there are conflicts of personality between the gods. When confronted with an existential threat to the current status quo they are limited in their responses by both their competing world views and desires. What seems inconsequential to one may be viewed as a threat by another and an opportunity by others. Additionally the vast majority of the Pantheon's power is tied up in preserving the status quo and preventing magic from becoming too powerful.

Sources of conflict:
Elder gods: Many of the gods that were not part of the Pantheon still exist and some of them resent their loss of power. Some of these resort to petty mischief in frustration, and the foolish tried to fight back against the Pantheon and were crushed into oblivion. Some are content with the status quo while others bide their time looking for an opening to cast off the chains of the Pantheon and regain their lost powers. Their outlooks have also changed over the centuries as they've observed the world the Pantheon has created.

National conflict: Nations have grown over the centuries and naturally conflict with each other and internally for the typical reasons, cultural differences, historical animosity, contention for resources, greed, nationalism, etc.

Lost technology: Many of the creations from the era of power still exist, though most are not functional. The discovery of individual relics that still have power can upset the balance of the world and also drive people to seek them out to gain power for themselves or at least to keep it out of the hands of their enemies.
Additionally, the existence of these creations points to the world's loss of power and serves as a thread to understanding how the Pantheon has come to dominate and limit the magic of the world. Some disatisfied by the limitations of the world would seek a return to the era of power, either oblivious to the risks or confident that this time things would be better. And some just seek power and don't particularly care about the consequences.


Antogonist:
I'm imagining an organization of Utopianists who are convinced that they could end all conflict and turn the world into paradise if they are able to break the power of the Pantheon and return to the era of power with the reigns of power in their hands. Seeing the conflict and suffering in the world, it is not difficult to be sympathetic to such an end, in particular when magic is offered as a potential source of plenty, so it would be believable that a large organization could be amassed and motivated to work on behalf of this goal. Such an organization is a suitable villain because as the end they are working for is seen as so good/moral (end of all suffering+conflict), they will be quite willing to commit crimes and create additional suffering and conflict to reach their goal. What does a little skirmish or war matter when eternal paradise is on the other side of the scale?

Within this organization is an inner core of individuals who manipulate it for their own ends. They know that the utopianist vision is not actually achievable, but it is a useful story to motivate people to overthrow the Pantheon. They have their own individual motivation but are basically power hungy and seek dominion. In theory they are working together, but they individually understand that in the end, none of them is ultimately planning on sharing control with any of the others, and so they constantly seek personal advantages and leverage over each other so that when their plan comes to fruition, they will end up on top. I imagine several of them as being allied with Elder Gods who either just want revenge on the Pantheon or see this as an opportunity to restore their own lost power.
This internal conflict gives us a lot of leeway for deciding how they will respond to the existence and efforts of the protagonist because even though he is working against them, individually they may judge the protagonist as a weapon that can be used against the other members.

In any case, this organization will be fomenting conflict in the world to increase their own influence (the more disatisfied people are, the more appealing their offer of Utopia becomes) and reduce the influence of the Pantheon, which can be blamed for all the short comings of the status quo. What good are gods that leave you to starve or die on the battlefield? Sure the organization is making things worse, but if the gods were worth their title, they should be able to stop that from happening, which just proves how undeserving they are of their lofty position and why they need to be replaced.

Avatars+Holy Servants:
While some of the gods may be magical manifestations of the beliefs and desires of people, many of them used to be ordinary people. Their ascent to power has not been freeing but rather a burden as only those that effectively wielded their power were able to keep it during the era of power, and then the Pantheon that remains is saddled with the responsibility of keeping magic from wreaking havoc on the world again. The gods are unable to have a normal existence but remain human and wish for freedom. To satisfy these needs, the gods will periodically manifest themselves as avatars in the world so that they can experience existence unburdened by the responsibility of being gods. These avatars can be more poweful than most ordinary people, but are limited both by the general limits on the powers of the pantheon, but also by the god's desires to live lives without burdensome power.
The gods could manifest as avatars in order to exert influence on the world, but typically they accomplish this through the creation of Holy Servants whose job is to carry out their will in the world. Additionally gods may interact directly with individuals through communing with them.

Divinity:
What we call divinity in the game is actual the latent magic power inherent in all living things to exert control over their reality. People mostly don't understand the true nature of divinity, and it is useless to them because collectively the world naturally resists attempts to control it (sort of a momentum of the status quo) and because the machinations of the Pantheon direct a vast wealth of divinity to reinforcing that status quo, allowing magic to only function according to their agreed upon rules.
The system of boons that characters use to gain new powers in this world is part of how the Pantheon maintains their power structure. As people gain influence in the world, their divinity increases both from their maturity, but also from it being conferred by those around them that support their aims. When you save a village from attacking invaders, you might gain divinity because of the faith the people put in you for saving them. If you inspire people with an ideal or a goal to work towards, they may unconsciously pass their divinity to you in support of that goal and so on.
If a person accrues a significant amount of divinity, they make a deal with a god. Put their faith in the god, passing the divinity on to them, and receive a specific boon in return. The boon is always less powerful than the divinity sacrificed in absolute terms, but since the gods have a monopoly on actually exercising divinity, the trade seems quite good to the person as the divinity is useless to them directly. And so as time passes the divinity and influence of the Pantheon grows and the status quo of reality continues to gain momentum.


Members of the Cabal:
The Enlightened One
Unlike other members of the Cabal, Teo actually believes in the creation of a world without conflict and suffering, a world that can easily be achieved by the destruction and suppression of all forms of life. Teo comes from a buddhist like order which teach asceticism and renouncement to escape the karmic cycle of suffering through enlightenment. As a child Teo wondered why the monks don't just kill themselves to avoid suffering. His elders explain that this would not work because karmic reincarnation will just lead them to more suffering in their next lives where they may not retain their teachings. Furthermore, it is egotistical because it raises one's personal escape from suffering above the suffering of the rest of the world. Rather, they should master their teachings to end personal suffering in their own lives, and spread their teachings to the world in order to end all suffering. But what about creatures that suffer and cannot learn the teachings Teo wonders? The masters also have an answer, through rebirth, all creatures will eventually be incarnated as intelligent beings and be exposed to the teachings, so eventually all will be able to find salvation. Teo is skeptical but accepts what his masters teach, all the while wondering if this is really the best they can do for the world. Is reincarnation real? Even if animals are eventually reincarnated, won't there always be more animals, and more suffering? His teachers tell him to focus on the good he can do in his life, and have faith in the teachings to lead to eventual salvation.
But what if Teo could do more? There is something different about him, something special. His mind seems clearer, unclouded by the biases and passions that seem to let others hide from the truth around him. Could he somehow apply his gifts to discover even greater teachings than the ones passed down to him? He seeks out knowledge of the world and begins to understand the shape of the true history of the world, understands the reasons behind the taboos for seeking out ancient texts and technologies. Perhaps he finally makes contact with one of the elder gods of the Cabal who reveals how suffering could be eliminated once and for all. Even if reincarnation is real, it doesn't matter if no new lives come into existence. The elder god explains that it would be difficult though. The primordial energy of existence left to its own devices will create new order and new life even if all of reality was completely destroyed. But if one powerful being took control of realities primordial energy, as long as they have the will, they could keep the spark of life from ever returning to the world again. Of course, only an individual of supreme fortitude and constancy could have the will to wield such power so single mindedly for all of eternity, would Teo be capable of such a feat? And what about the sacrifice? You would end the suffering of all other life, only to endure eternal suffering yourself an existence of constant vigilance in order to keep stamping out the spark of creation. Is Teo really so virtuous as to make that ultimate sacrifice?
He considers taking this knowledge to the masters to see if they will dedicate their order to the goal of truly ending all suffering, but he feels he can see their objections and knows that they would be horrified by these ideas. He is disgusted by their selfishness and blindness to the truth, their hypocrisy, claiming to seek salvation for all when in truth they would fight against it if they actually had the opportunity. He has found his enlightenment and surpassed the teachings of his order, but how to be certain he really is the one to save the world? The elder god gives him a test. Kill the rest of the order, all the people you love in order to free them from their suffering, even though you will suffer greatly to do so. If you can do this, you can do anything, must do anything to free their souls from suffering for eternity, otherwise this crime, this betrayal will have been for nothing.
...
In the cabal Teo recognizes all the same flaws of his previous order in the utopians and the leaders, though they dress their faith in different language and ideas. But despite their lack of faith, their hypocrisy, they can still serve as an effective tool for bringing about the true salvation of the world, and so Teo is satisfied with his position, knowing that he will one day have to take control of the Cabal to finally bring true salvation to the world.


Bits and Pieces:
Elder God of the Cabal: What is its primary motivations? Revenge, regaining power, reshaping the world?
Possible cabal member: avatar of the elder god
Name for the utopianists? Revolution, people's army, hands of salvation,




Origin -> Provenance -> Prove Once -> Shoomei Ichido -> Smeichido -> Semichido
Sekai
Lafter Falter -> Grand Falter

Welcome Traveler, to Granfalter, a world of adventure and opportunity.
I am Luna an Emissary of Fortuna, Goddess of this world.
The Goddess has decreed that all visitors are entitled to a small land plot to build on and a modest sum of coin with which to start your fortune.
It is Fortuna's sincere desire that you will use these gifts to create a prosperous new guild to explore the world and serve the people of Granfalter.

First, here are your coins:
+100 coins
You can use them to hire help and build your guild.
You may also offer your coins to Fortuna to receive Her blessing in the form of new gear for your guild members.
There are many Gods besides Fortuna in Granfalter that you can contract with, but more on Them later.

Now about your guild plot...
Strangely, there have been a surprising number of visitors recently, more than we've seen in many years.
Unfortunately, because of this, we've been struggling to keep up with preparing new plots for visitors.
I do have something used available, but its been abandoned for so long that its been picked over by looters
and become a den of monsters...
Since this doesn't live up to our normal contract however, I have made the following arrangement for you:
You can keep anything you recover while renovating the guild hall, and we will hire an adventurer for you
to help with clearing it out and get your guild off to a promising start.
That's not so bad right? And who knows, if Fortune is on your side, maybe there will be some valuable treasures that the looters left behind.

Ah, here is your new guild hero, Primadona, now.
[Primadona walks onto screen (I guess outside of guild entrance)]
Let's send them in to clear out the foyer so your guild heroes will have a place to stay.
You can observe your guild heroes as they take on tasks, but they will act on their own so you don't need to give them any additional instructions.
Let's see how Primadona does with clearing out the guild foyer.
[Primadona advances on the first enemy]
Guild heroes will engage any enemies they come across, only advancing once all enemies have been defeated.
[Primadona defeats the enemy]
Nice work, let's keep going.
[Primadona defeats two more enemies]
Well, they put up a bit of a fight, but overall, that didn't look too tough. Nice work Primadona!

Let's see what we've got here:
* A table with a small map of the world [Add table + map to foyer] [create world map icon] (or just use table?)
* An old pot with 50 coins. Nice! You can keep your savings in here for now [Add pot to foyer] [display coins indicator at top of screen]
* A Shrine to the Goddess Fortuna. You can use this to make offerings to Fortuna for new gear.
* A Bed. Primdona can use this to rest here

Next let's try to clear out the front hall.
[Primadona engages the first enemy, but deals little damage initially]
Uh oh...
[Primadona continues to fight and is losing]
These monsters just a little further in seem much tougher!

It appears that Primadona was defeated, but don't worry! The Goddess has made Granfalter a world of gentle consequences.
A hero that is defeated in battle will always be regenerated in the last safe place they were, so Primadona is waiting for us back in the foyer.
[Back in the foyer]
Even though Primadona is okay, it doesn't look like they will be able to clear out the front hall with their current power.
What you need is the Power of the Gods.
Here, I've marked the locations of several nearby shrines on the map we found in the foyer.
[Open World Map and display and rotate to the first area]
Each shrine was built as a contract with one of the many Gods of Granfalter.
[Display and rotate to the second area]
If a guild hero is able to reach one of these shrines, they will be blessed with Divinity, the divine favor of the Gods.
[Display and rotate to the final area (matched to Primadona's job class)] [Display Divinity indicator next to Primadona icon at top of screen]
When a hero has enough Divinity, they may use it to worship at a shrine and contract with the God of that shrine to become more powerful and learn a new skill.
[Add Primadona's icon to the final area]
Send Primadona out to one of the shrines I have marked so that they can grow powerful enough to clear out the front hall.
[Player is now free to choose an area or close the map and do whatever]

[Once Primadona is level 2]
Primadona is looking a lot stronger now, maybe they can clear out the front hall!
[Highlight the Shrine to Fortuna]
If they are still struggling, try praying at the shrine for new gear to equip them with.
[Highlight the World Map]
If you need more coins, you can send Primadona out on adventures. You can even instruct them to automatically repeat the same area if you like.

[On defeating the first enemy in the Front Hall]
Nice, looking good! (could change dialog based on % health)
Oh, here comes some more.
[On defeating second group]
Excellent!
[Boss appears]
This one looks tough...
[On defeating the boss]

They did it, the front hall is clear, let's see what we've got:
* A cracked Anima Orb. There isn't much Anima left and it doesn't look like it can hold much but you can collect some Anima here to enchant your gear [Display anima drop down +10 Anima]
* Another Bed. With an extra bed, you can hire another hero to join your guild. Speaking of which there is also...
* An application board. Itenerate heroes can post applications here for you to consider.


The world of consequence where defeat can no longer be ignored.
The world of extreme consequence, where defeat is final.




Final boss will be something like a tree demon (evil Yggdrasil?) with roots growing into all the child worlds of Granfalter.
From each root it gains increased stats and unique abilities associated each world, for example:
The ability to infinitely consume restorative and buffing foods.
The ability to summon powerful minions.
The effect of returning the hero to the beginning of a long multistage fight on defeat instead of restarting the most recent stage.
etc.

Completing content in the child worlds of Granfalter will allow the hero to enable inhibitors during the final battle that remove or reduce these abilities.
This creates multiple goals of first defeating the boss at all (probably be disabling more than half of its abilities) and then powering up a character so
much that they can defeat the boss without any of the inhibitors enabled.
